src/oss/deepagents/skills.mdx, before:

---
title: Skills
description: Learn how to extend your deep agent's capabilities with skills
---

You can use [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io/) to provide your deep agent with new capabilities and expertise.

## What are skills

Skills are a directory of folders, where each folder has one or more files that contain context the agent can use:

- a `SKILL.md` file containing instructions and metadata about the skill
- additional scripts (optional)
- additional reference info, such as docs (optional)
- additional assets, such as templates and other resources (optional)

## How do skills work

When you create a deep agent, you can pass in a list of directories containing skills.
As the agent starts, it reads through the frontmatter of each `SKILL.md` file.

When the agent receives a prompt, the agent checks if it can use any skills while fulfilling the prompt.
If it finds a matching prompt, it then reviews the rest of the skill files.
This pattern of only reviewing the skill information when needed is called progressive disclosure.

## Examples

You might have a skills folder that contains a skill to use a docs site in a certain way, as well as another skill to search the arXiv preprint repository of research papers:

```plaintext
    skills/
    ├── langgraph-docs
    │   └── SKILL.md
    └── arxiv_search
        ├── SKILL.md
        └── arxiv_search.ts # code for searchign arXiv
```

The `SKILL.md` file always follows the same pattern, starting with metadata in the frontmatter and followed by the instructions for the skill.
The following example shows a skill that gives instructions on how to provide relevant langgraph docs when prompted:

```md
---
name: langgraph-docs
description: Use this skill for requests related to LangGraph in order to fetch relevant documentation to provide accurate, up-to-date guidance.
---

# langgraph-docs

## Overview

This skill explains how to access LangGraph Python documentation to help answer questions and guide implementation.

## Instructions

### 1. Fetch the Documentation Index

Use the fetch_url tool to read the following URL:
https://docs.langchain.com/llms.txt

This provides a structured list of all available documentation with descriptions.

### 2. Select Relevant Documentation

Based on the question, identify 2-4 most relevant documentation URLs from the index. Prioritize:

- Specific how-to guides for implementation questions
- Core concept pages for understanding questions
- Tutorials for end-to-end examples
- Reference docs for API details

### 3. Fetch Selected Documentation

Use the fetch_url tool to read the selected documentation URLs.

### 4. Provide Accurate Guidance

After reading the documentation, complete the user's request.
```

For more example skills, see [Deep Agent example skills](https://github.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/tree/main/examples/skills).

## Usage

Pass the skills directory when creating your deep agent:

:::python
<Tabs>
  <Tab title="StateBackend">
    ```python
    from urllib.request import urlopen
    from deepagents import create_deep_agent
    from langgraph.checkpoint.memory import MemorySaver

    checkpointer = MemorySaver()

    skill_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/refs/heads/main/examples/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md"
    with urlopen(skill_url) as response:
        skill_content = response.read().decode('utf-8')

    skills_files = {
        "/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md": skill_content
    }

    agent = create_deep_agent(
        skills=["./skills/"],
        checkpointer=checkpointer,
    )

    result = agent.invoke(
        {
            "messages": [
                {
                    "role": "user",
                    "content": "What is langgraph?",
                }
            ],
            # Seed the default StateBackend's in-state filesystem (virtual paths must start with "/").
            "files": skills_files
        },
        config={"configurable": {"thread_id": "12345"}},
    )
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="StoreBackend">
    ```python
    from urllib.request import urlopen
    from deepagents import create_deep_agent
    from deepagents.backends import StoreBackend
    from langgraph.store.memory import InMemoryStore


    store = InMemoryStore()

    skill_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/refs/heads/main/examples/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md"
    with urlopen(skill_url) as response:
        skill_content = response.read().decode('utf-8')

    store.put(
        namespace=("filesystem",),
        key="/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md",
        value=skill_content
    )

    agent = create_deep_agent(
        backend=(lambda rt: StoreBackend(rt)),
        store=store,
        skills=["./skills/"]
    )

    result = agent.invoke(
        {
            "messages": [
                {
                    "role": "user",
                    "content": "What is langgraph?",
                }
            ]
        },
        config={"configurable": {"thread_id": "12345"}},
    )
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="FilesystemBackend">
    ```python
    from deepagents import create_deep_agent
    from langgraph.checkpoint.memory import MemorySaver
    from deepagents.backends.filesystem import FilesystemBackend

    # Checkpointer is REQUIRED for human-in-the-loop
    checkpointer = MemorySaver()

    agent = create_deep_agent(
        backend=FilesystemBackend(root_dir="/Users/user/{project}"),
        skills=["/Users/user/{project}/skills/"],
        interrupt_on={
            "write_file": True,  # Default: approve, edit, reject
            "read_file": False,  # No interrupts needed
            "edit_file": True    # Default: approve, edit, reject
        },
        checkpointer=checkpointer,  # Required!
    )

    result = agent.invoke(
        {
            "messages": [
                {
                    "role": "user",
                    "content": "What is langgraph?",
                }
            ]
        },
        config={"configurable": {"thread_id": "12345"}},
    )
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

<ParamField body="skills" type="list[str]" optional>
    List of skill source paths. Paths must be specified using forward slashes and are relative to the backend's root.
    - When using StateBackend (default), provide skill files with `invoke(files={...})`.
    - With FilesystemBackend, skills are loaded from disk relative to the backend's root_dir.

    Later sources override earlier ones for skills with the same name (last one wins).
</ParamField>

:::

:::js
<Tabs>
  <Tab title="StateBackend">

    ```typescript
    import { createDeepAgent, type FileData } from "deepagents";
    import { MemorySaver, Command } from "@langchain/langgraph";
    import { createInterface } from "node:readline/promises";
    import { stdin as input, stdout as output } from "node:process";

    const checkpointer = new MemorySaver();

    function createFileData(content: string): FileData {
    const now = new Date().toISOString();
    return {
        content: content.split("\n"),
        created_at: now,
        modified_at: now,
    };
    }

    const skillsFiles: Record<string, FileData> = {};

    const skillUrl =
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/refs/heads/main/examples/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md";
    const response = await fetch(skillUrl);
    const skillContent = await response.text();

    skillsFiles["/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md"] = createFileData(skillContent);

    const agent = await createDeepAgent({
    checkpointer,
    // IMPORTANT: deepagents skill source paths are virtual (POSIX) paths relative to the backend root.
    skills: ["/skills/"],
    });

    const config = {
    configurable: {
        thread_id: `thread-${Date.now()}`,
    },
    };

    let result = await agent.invoke(
    {
        messages: [
        {
            role: "user",
            content: "what is langraph? Use the langgraph-docs skill if available.",
        },
        ],
        files: skillsFiles,
    } as any,
    config
    );
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab title="StoreBackend">

    ```typescript
    import { createDeepAgent, StoreBackend, type FileData } from "deepagents";
    import {
    InMemoryStore,
    MemorySaver,
    type BaseStore,
    } from "@langchain/langgraph";

    const checkpointer = new MemorySaver();
    const store = new InMemoryStore();

    function createFileData(content: string): FileData {
    const now = new Date().toISOString();
    return {
        content: content.split("\n"),
        created_at: now,
        modified_at: now,
    };
    }

    const skillUrl =
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/refs/heads/main/examples/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md";

    const response = await fetch(skillUrl);
    const skillContent = await response.text();
    const fileData = createFileData(skillContent);

    await store.put(["filesystem"], "/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md", fileData);

    const backendFactory = (config: { state: unknown; store?: BaseStore }) => {
    return new StoreBackend({
        state: config.state,
        store: config.store ?? store,
    });
    };

    const agent = await createDeepAgent({
    backend: backendFactory,
    store: store,
    checkpointer,
    // IMPORTANT: deepagents skill source paths are virtual (POSIX) paths relative to the backend root.
    skills: ["/skills/"],
    });

    const config = {
    configurable: {
        thread_id: `thread-${Date.now()}`,
    },
    };

    let result = await agent.invoke(
    {
        messages: [
        {
            role: "user",
            content: "what is langraph? Use the langgraph-docs skill if available.",
        },
        ],
    },
    config
    );
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab title="FilesystemBackend">

    ```typescript
    import {
    createDeepAgent,
    createSkillsMiddleware,
    createSettings,
    FilesystemBackend,
    } from "deepagents";
    import { MemorySaver } from "@langchain/langgraph";

    const settings = createSettings({
    });

    const agent = await createDeepAgent({
    backend: (config) =>
        new FilesystemBackend({ rootDir: "/Users/user/{project}" }),
    skills: [path.join(process.cwd(), ".deepagents/skills")],
    interruptOn: {
        read_file: true,
        write_file: true,
        delete_file: true,
    },
    checkpointer, // Required!
    });

    const config = {
    configurable: {
        thread_id: `thread-${Date.now()}`,
    },
    };

    let result = await agent.invoke(
    {
        messages: [
        {
            role: "user",
            content: "what is langraph? Use the langgraph-docs skill if available.",
        },
        ]
    } as any,
    config
    );
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

<ParamField body="skills" type="list[str]" optional>
    List of skill source paths.
    Paths must be specified using forward slashes and are relative to the backend's root.
    - When using StateBackend (default), provide skill files with `invoke(files={...})`.
    - With FilesystemBackend, skills are loaded from disk relative to the backend's root_dir.

    Later sources override earlier ones for skills with the same name (last one wins).
</ParamField>

:::

## When to use skills and tools

These are a few general guidelines for using tools and skills:

- Use skills when there is a lot of context to reduce the number of tokens in the system prompt.
- Use skills to bundle capabilities together into larger actions and provide additional context beyond single tool descriptions.
- Use tools if the agent does not have access to the file system.

Commit message:

revise deep agents CLI docs (#2337)

src/oss/deepagents/skills.mdx, after:

---
title: Skills
description: Learn how to extend your deep agent's capabilities with skills
---

Skills are reusable agent capabilities that provide specialized workflows and domain knowledge.
You can use [Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io/) to provide your deep agent with new capabilities and expertise.
Deep agent skills follow the [Agent Skills standard](https://agentskills.io/).

## What are skills

Skills are a directory of folders, where each folder has one or more files that contain context the agent can use:

- a `SKILL.md` file containing instructions and metadata about the skill
- additional scripts (optional)
- additional reference info, such as docs (optional)
- additional assets, such as templates and other resources (optional)

## How do skills work

When you create a deep agent, you can pass in a list of directories containing skills.
As the agent starts, it reads through the frontmatter of each `SKILL.md` file.

When the agent receives a prompt, the agent checks if it can use any skills while fulfilling the prompt.
If it finds a matching prompt, it then reviews the rest of the skill files.
This pattern of only reviewing the skill information when needed is called progressive disclosure.

## Examples

You might have a skills folder that contains a skill to use a docs site in a certain way, as well as another skill to search the arXiv preprint repository of research papers:

```plaintext
    skills/
    ├── langgraph-docs
    │   └── SKILL.md
    └── arxiv_search
        ├── SKILL.md
        └── arxiv_search.ts # code for searchign arXiv
```

The `SKILL.md` file always follows the same pattern, starting with metadata in the frontmatter and followed by the instructions for the skill.
The following example shows a skill that gives instructions on how to provide relevant langgraph docs when prompted:

```md
---
name: langgraph-docs
description: Use this skill for requests related to LangGraph in order to fetch relevant documentation to provide accurate, up-to-date guidance.
---

# langgraph-docs

## Overview

This skill explains how to access LangGraph Python documentation to help answer questions and guide implementation.

## Instructions

### 1. Fetch the Documentation Index

Use the fetch_url tool to read the following URL:
https://docs.langchain.com/llms.txt

This provides a structured list of all available documentation with descriptions.

### 2. Select Relevant Documentation

Based on the question, identify 2-4 most relevant documentation URLs from the index. Prioritize:

- Specific how-to guides for implementation questions
- Core concept pages for understanding questions
- Tutorials for end-to-end examples
- Reference docs for API details

### 3. Fetch Selected Documentation

Use the fetch_url tool to read the selected documentation URLs.

### 4. Provide Accurate Guidance

After reading the documentation, complete the user's request.
```

For more example skills, see [Deep Agent example skills](https://github.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/tree/main/examples/skills).

## Usage

Pass the skills directory when creating your deep agent:

:::python
<Tabs>
  <Tab title="StateBackend">
    ```python
    from urllib.request import urlopen
    from deepagents import create_deep_agent
    from langgraph.checkpoint.memory import MemorySaver

    checkpointer = MemorySaver()

    skill_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/refs/heads/main/examples/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md"
    with urlopen(skill_url) as response:
        skill_content = response.read().decode('utf-8')

    skills_files = {
        "/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md": skill_content
    }

    agent = create_deep_agent(
        skills=["./skills/"],
        checkpointer=checkpointer,
    )

    result = agent.invoke(
        {
            "messages": [
                {
                    "role": "user",
                    "content": "What is langgraph?",
                }
            ],
            # Seed the default StateBackend's in-state filesystem (virtual paths must start with "/").
            "files": skills_files
        },
        config={"configurable": {"thread_id": "12345"}},
    )
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="StoreBackend">
    ```python
    from urllib.request import urlopen
    from deepagents import create_deep_agent
    from deepagents.backends import StoreBackend
    from langgraph.store.memory import InMemoryStore


    store = InMemoryStore()

    skill_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/refs/heads/main/examples/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md"
    with urlopen(skill_url) as response:
        skill_content = response.read().decode('utf-8')

    store.put(
        namespace=("filesystem",),
        key="/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md",
        value=skill_content
    )

    agent = create_deep_agent(
        backend=(lambda rt: StoreBackend(rt)),
        store=store,
        skills=["./skills/"]
    )

    result = agent.invoke(
        {
            "messages": [
                {
                    "role": "user",
                    "content": "What is langgraph?",
                }
            ]
        },
        config={"configurable": {"thread_id": "12345"}},
    )
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="FilesystemBackend">
    ```python
    from deepagents import create_deep_agent
    from langgraph.checkpoint.memory import MemorySaver
    from deepagents.backends.filesystem import FilesystemBackend

    # Checkpointer is REQUIRED for human-in-the-loop
    checkpointer = MemorySaver()

    agent = create_deep_agent(
        backend=FilesystemBackend(root_dir="/Users/user/{project}"),
        skills=["/Users/user/{project}/skills/"],
        interrupt_on={
            "write_file": True,  # Default: approve, edit, reject
            "read_file": False,  # No interrupts needed
            "edit_file": True    # Default: approve, edit, reject
        },
        checkpointer=checkpointer,  # Required!
    )

    result = agent.invoke(
        {
            "messages": [
                {
                    "role": "user",
                    "content": "What is langgraph?",
                }
            ]
        },
        config={"configurable": {"thread_id": "12345"}},
    )
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

<ParamField body="skills" type="list[str]" optional>
    List of skill source paths. Paths must be specified using forward slashes and are relative to the backend's root.
    - When using StateBackend (default), provide skill files with `invoke(files={...})`.
    - With FilesystemBackend, skills are loaded from disk relative to the backend's root_dir.

    Later sources override earlier ones for skills with the same name (last one wins).
</ParamField>

:::

:::js
<Tabs>
  <Tab title="StateBackend">

    ```typescript
    import { createDeepAgent, type FileData } from "deepagents";
    import { MemorySaver, Command } from "@langchain/langgraph";
    import { createInterface } from "node:readline/promises";
    import { stdin as input, stdout as output } from "node:process";

    const checkpointer = new MemorySaver();

    function createFileData(content: string): FileData {
    const now = new Date().toISOString();
    return {
        content: content.split("\n"),
        created_at: now,
        modified_at: now,
    };
    }

    const skillsFiles: Record<string, FileData> = {};

    const skillUrl =
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/refs/heads/main/examples/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md";
    const response = await fetch(skillUrl);
    const skillContent = await response.text();

    skillsFiles["/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md"] = createFileData(skillContent);

    const agent = await createDeepAgent({
    checkpointer,
    // IMPORTANT: deepagents skill source paths are virtual (POSIX) paths relative to the backend root.
    skills: ["/skills/"],
    });

    const config = {
    configurable: {
        thread_id: `thread-${Date.now()}`,
    },
    };

    let result = await agent.invoke(
    {
        messages: [
        {
            role: "user",
            content: "what is langraph? Use the langgraph-docs skill if available.",
        },
        ],
        files: skillsFiles,
    } as any,
    config
    );
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab title="StoreBackend">

    ```typescript
    import { createDeepAgent, StoreBackend, type FileData } from "deepagents";
    import {
    InMemoryStore,
    MemorySaver,
    type BaseStore,
    } from "@langchain/langgraph";

    const checkpointer = new MemorySaver();
    const store = new InMemoryStore();

    function createFileData(content: string): FileData {
    const now = new Date().toISOString();
    return {
        content: content.split("\n"),
        created_at: now,
        modified_at: now,
    };
    }

    const skillUrl =
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs/refs/heads/main/examples/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md";

    const response = await fetch(skillUrl);
    const skillContent = await response.text();
    const fileData = createFileData(skillContent);

    await store.put(["filesystem"], "/skills/langgraph-docs/SKILL.md", fileData);

    const backendFactory = (config: { state: unknown; store?: BaseStore }) => {
    return new StoreBackend({
        state: config.state,
        store: config.store ?? store,
    });
    };

    const agent = await createDeepAgent({
    backend: backendFactory,
    store: store,
    checkpointer,
    // IMPORTANT: deepagents skill source paths are virtual (POSIX) paths relative to the backend root.
    skills: ["/skills/"],
    });

    const config = {
    configurable: {
        thread_id: `thread-${Date.now()}`,
    },
    };

    let result = await agent.invoke(
    {
        messages: [
        {
            role: "user",
            content: "what is langraph? Use the langgraph-docs skill if available.",
        },
        ],
    },
    config
    );
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab title="FilesystemBackend">

    ```typescript
    import {
    createDeepAgent,
    createSkillsMiddleware,
    createSettings,
    FilesystemBackend,
    } from "deepagents";
    import { MemorySaver } from "@langchain/langgraph";

    const settings = createSettings({
    });

    const agent = await createDeepAgent({
    backend: (config) =>
        new FilesystemBackend({ rootDir: "/Users/user/{project}" }),
    skills: [path.join(process.cwd(), ".deepagents/skills")],
    interruptOn: {
        read_file: true,
        write_file: true,
        delete_file: true,
    },
    checkpointer, // Required!
    });

    const config = {
    configurable: {
        thread_id: `thread-${Date.now()}`,
    },
    };

    let result = await agent.invoke(
    {
        messages: [
        {
            role: "user",
            content: "what is langraph? Use the langgraph-docs skill if available.",
        },
        ]
    } as any,
    config
    );
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

<ParamField body="skills" type="list[str]" optional>
    List of skill source paths.
    Paths must be specified using forward slashes and are relative to the backend's root.
    - When using StateBackend (default), provide skill files with `invoke(files={...})`.
    - With FilesystemBackend, skills are loaded from disk relative to the backend's root_dir.

    Later sources override earlier ones for skills with the same name (last one wins).
</ParamField>

:::

## When to use skills and tools

These are a few general guidelines for using tools and skills:

- Use skills when there is a lot of context to reduce the number of tokens in the system prompt.
- Use skills to bundle capabilities together into larger actions and provide additional context beyond single tool descriptions.
- Use tools if the agent does not have access to the file system.
