README.md, before:

# LangChain Docs

🦜 **Welcome!** This repository contains the documentation build pipeline for LangChain projects.

* 🏠 [`docs.langchain.com`](https://docs.langchain.com) is our docs home, centralizing LangChain, LangGraph, LangSmith, and LangChain Labs (Deep Agents, Open SWE, Open Agent Platform). This site is hosted on [Mintlify](https://mintlify.com).
* 🛠️ `reference.langchain.com` is home to the API reference docs for LangChain, LangGraph, LangSmith, and LangChain integration packages (e.g., [`langchain-anthropic`](https://pypi.org/project/langchain-anthropic/), [`langchain-openai`](https://pypi.org/project/langchain-openai/)). These are static sites built from the source code and deployed to [Vercel](https://vercel.com).
  * [`Python reference`](https://reference.langchain.com/python/)
  * [`JavaScript/TypeScript reference`](https://reference.langchain.com/javascript/)

---

**Table of contents:**

- [LangChain Docs](#langchain-docs)
  - [Contribute](#contribute)
  - [Reference](#reference)
    - [Repository structure](#repository-structure)
      - [`docs.langchain.com`](#docslangchaincom)
      - [`reference.langchain.com`](#referencelangchaincom)
    - [File formats](#file-formats)
    - [Available commands](#available-commands)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
    - [`docs dev` not working / running](#docs-dev-not-working--running)
    - [Mintlify `.venv` parsing error](#mintlify-venv-parsing-error)
    - [Warning: page doesn't exist](#warning-page-doesnt-exist)
    - [General Mintlify errors](#general-mintlify-errors)

---

## Contribute

To contribute to LangChain documentation, follow the steps outlined in the [contributing guide](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/overview). The contributing guide also explains our documentation types and their writing and quality standards.

For detailed information about setting up your development environment and contributing to documentation, see the [documentation contributing guide](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/documentation).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For contributing to reference docs, see the `README.md` file in the `/reference/python` and `/reference/javascript` directories.

## Reference

### Repository structure

```text
# --- docs.langchain.com ----------------------------------------------
build/                    # Built docs (DO NOT EDIT)
pipeline/                 # Build pipeline source code
scripts/                  # Helper scripts
src/                      # Source documentation files (< EDIT CONTENT HERE)
    langsmith/            # LangSmith docs
    oss/                  # LangChain, LangGraph, Deep Agents, and integrations docs
    docs.json             # Mintlify site configuration and navigation
tests/                    # Test files for the pipeline
Makefile                  # Build targets
pyproject.toml            # Dependencies

# --- reference.langchain.com -----------------------------------------
reference/                # Reference docs build pipelines
    dist/                 # Built docs (DO NOT EDIT)
    javascript/           # JS/TS reference build pipeline
    python/               # Python reference build pipeline and source
    package.json          # Vercel commands and dependencies
    vercel.json           # Vercel configuration/redirects
```

#### `docs.langchain.com`

The Mintlify docs pipeline is structured with `.mdx` source files in `/src` and build artifacts in `/build`. Mintlify deploys from the `/build` folder, which is generated by preprocessing logic.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Never edit `/build` directly.

The `/src/docs.json` file is used to configure the Mintlify site navigation and settings. Refer to the [Mintlify documentation](https://www.mintlify.com/docs/organize/navigation) for detailed syntax and component usage.

Documentation changes follow a PR workflow where all tests must pass before merging. See the [contributing guidelines](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/documentation) for more details.

#### `reference.langchain.com`

Each language has its own build pipeline in `/reference/<language>`. Reference docs are built with a combination of automated docstring extraction and manually written content. Refer to the `README.md` in each folder for details on how to build and contribute.

Built files are stored in `/reference/dist/{LANGUAGE}`, which is then deployed to Vercel. The build process is triggered automatically on pushes to `main` and can also be triggered manually via the Vercel dashboard.

### File formats

* **Markdown files** (`.md`, `.mdx`) - Standard documentation content
* **Snippets** (`src/snippets/`) - Reusable MDX content that can be imported into multiple pages. **Important:** Snippets undergo special link preprocessing. When writing links in snippets, be careful about path segments.
* **Jupyter notebooks** (`.ipynb`) - Converted to markdown during build, though **these are not recommended for new content!** Your PR will likely be rejected if you attempt to add a Jupyter notebook unless asked to by a maintainer.
* **Assets** - Images and other files are copied to the build directory

### Available commands

**Make commands:**

* `make dev` - Start development mode with file watching and live rebuild
* `make build` - Build documentation to `./build` directory
* `make mint-broken-links` - Check for broken links in built documentation (excludes integrations)
* `make mint-broken-links-all` - Check for broken links in built documentation (includes all directories)
* `make build-references` - Build reference docs
* `make preview-references` - Preview reference docs using vercel
* `make install` - Install all dependencies
* `make clean` - Remove build artifacts
* `make test` - Run the test suite
* `make lint` - Check code style and formatting
* `make format` - Auto-format code
* `make lint_md` - Lint markdown files
* `make lint_md_fix` - Lint and fix markdown files
* `make help` - Show all available commands

**`docs` CLI tool:**

The `docs` command (installed as `uv run docs`) provides additional functionality:

* **`docs migrate <path>`** - Convert MkDocs markdown/notebook files to Mintlify format
  * `--dry-run` - Preview changes without writing files
  * `--output <path>` - Specify output location (default: in-place)
  * Supports `.md`, `.markdown`, `.ipynb` files

* **`docs migrate-docusaurus <path>`** - Convert Docusaurus markdown/notebook files to Mintlify format
  * `--dry-run` - Preview changes without writing files
  * `--output <path>` - Specify output location (default: in-place)
  * Supports `.md`, `.markdown`, `.mdx`, `.ipynb` files
  * Converts Docusaurus-specific syntax (admonitions, tabs, imports, etc.)

* **`docs mv <old_path> <new_path>`** - Move files and update cross-references
  * `--dry-run` - Preview changes without moving files

These can be used directly using the `Makefile` or via the `docs` CLI tool:

* **`docs dev`** - Start development mode with file watching and hot reload
  * Automatically rebuilds changed files from `src/` to `build/`
  * Launches Mintlify dev server at <http://localhost:3000>
  * Provides automatic browser refresh when files change
  * `--skip-build` - Skip initial build and use existing build directory

* **`docs build`** - Build documentation files
  * `--watch` - Watch for file changes after building

## Troubleshooting

### `docs dev` not working / running

Re-do the [steps to set up your dev environment](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/documentation#set-up-local-environment), ensuring you have activated the virtual environment and installed all dependencies.

### Mintlify `.venv` parsing error

**Problem**: Running `mint broken-links` or other Mintlify commands from the project root causes parsing errors like:

```txt
Unable to parse .venv/lib/python3.13/site-packages/soupsieve-2.7.dist-info/licenses/LICENSE.md
- 3:48: Unexpected character '@' (U+0040) in name
```

**Root Cause**: Mintlify tries to parse all files in the directory, including Python virtual environment files that contain invalid MDX syntax.

**Solutions** (in order of preference):

1. **Use the safe Make commands** (recommended):

   ```bash
   make mint-broken-links  # Builds docs first, then checks links (excludes integrations)
   ```

2. **Run Mintlify commands from the build directory**:

   ```bash
   cd build               # Change to build directory where final docs are
   mint broken-links      # Now safe to run
   ```

**Why this works**: The solution ensures Mintlify commands run from the `build/` directory where the final documentation is generated, which is the correct place to check for broken links. This avoids scanning the Python virtual environment in the project root.

**Prevention**: Always use the provided Make commands instead of running raw `mint` commands from the project root.

### Warning: page doesn't exist

If adding a new group, ensure the root `index.mdx` is included in the `pages` array like:

```json
{
  "group": "New group",
  "pages": ["new-group/index", "new-group/other-page"]
}
```

If the trailing `/index` (no extension included) is omitted, the Mintlify parser will raise a warning even though the site will still build.

### General Mintlify errors

In some cases, we use new features that are only available in the latest Mintlify CLI. If you encounter errors, ensure you have the latest version installed:

```bash
mint update

# or

npm install -g mint
```

Commit message:

Update README with local preview instructions (#2227)

README.md, after:

# LangChain Docs

🦜 **Welcome!** This repository contains the documentation build pipeline for LangChain projects.

* 🏠 [`docs.langchain.com`](https://docs.langchain.com) is our docs home, centralizing LangChain, LangGraph, LangSmith, and LangChain Labs (Deep Agents, Open SWE, Open Agent Platform). This site is hosted on [Mintlify](https://mintlify.com).
* 🛠️ `reference.langchain.com` is home to the API reference docs for LangChain, LangGraph, LangSmith, and LangChain integration packages (e.g., [`langchain-anthropic`](https://pypi.org/project/langchain-anthropic/), [`langchain-openai`](https://pypi.org/project/langchain-openai/)). These are static sites built from the source code and deployed to [Vercel](https://vercel.com).
  * [`Python reference`](https://reference.langchain.com/python/)
  * [`JavaScript/TypeScript reference`](https://reference.langchain.com/javascript/)

---

**Table of contents:**

- [LangChain Docs](#langchain-docs)
  - [Contribute](#contribute)
  - [Reference](#reference)
    - [Repository structure](#repository-structure)
      - [`docs.langchain.com`](#docslangchaincom)
      - [`reference.langchain.com`](#referencelangchaincom)
    - [File formats](#file-formats)
    - [Available commands](#available-commands)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
    - [`docs dev` not working / running](#docs-dev-not-working--running)
    - [Mintlify `.venv` parsing error](#mintlify-venv-parsing-error)
    - [Warning: page doesn't exist](#warning-page-doesnt-exist)
    - [General Mintlify errors](#general-mintlify-errors)

---

## Contribute

To run a local preview of the documentation:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/langchain-ai/docs.git
```

```bash
cd docs
```

```bash
make install
```

```bash
make dev
```

For more information on how to o contribute to LangChain documentation, follow the steps outlined in the [contributing guide](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/overview). The contributing guide also explains our documentation types and their writing and quality standards.

For detailed information about setting up your development environment and contributing to documentation, see the [documentation contributing guide](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/documentation).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For contributing to reference docs, see the `README.md` file in the `/reference/python` and `/reference/javascript` directories.

## Reference

### Repository structure

```text
# --- docs.langchain.com ----------------------------------------------
build/                    # Built docs (DO NOT EDIT)
pipeline/                 # Build pipeline source code
scripts/                  # Helper scripts
src/                      # Source documentation files (< EDIT CONTENT HERE)
    langsmith/            # LangSmith docs
    oss/                  # LangChain, LangGraph, Deep Agents, and integrations docs
    docs.json             # Mintlify site configuration and navigation
tests/                    # Test files for the pipeline
Makefile                  # Build targets
pyproject.toml            # Dependencies

# --- reference.langchain.com -----------------------------------------
reference/                # Reference docs build pipelines
    dist/                 # Built docs (DO NOT EDIT)
    javascript/           # JS/TS reference build pipeline
    python/               # Python reference build pipeline and source
    package.json          # Vercel commands and dependencies
    vercel.json           # Vercel configuration/redirects
```

#### `docs.langchain.com`

The Mintlify docs pipeline is structured with `.mdx` source files in `/src` and build artifacts in `/build`. Mintlify deploys from the `/build` folder, which is generated by preprocessing logic.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Never edit `/build` directly.

The `/src/docs.json` file is used to configure the Mintlify site navigation and settings. Refer to the [Mintlify documentation](https://www.mintlify.com/docs/organize/navigation) for detailed syntax and component usage.

Documentation changes follow a PR workflow where all tests must pass before merging. See the [contributing guidelines](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/documentation) for more details.

#### `reference.langchain.com`

Each language has its own build pipeline in `/reference/<language>`. Reference docs are built with a combination of automated docstring extraction and manually written content. Refer to the `README.md` in each folder for details on how to build and contribute.

Built files are stored in `/reference/dist/{LANGUAGE}`, which is then deployed to Vercel. The build process is triggered automatically on pushes to `main` and can also be triggered manually via the Vercel dashboard.

### File formats

* **Markdown files** (`.md`, `.mdx`) - Standard documentation content
* **Snippets** (`src/snippets/`) - Reusable MDX content that can be imported into multiple pages. **Important:** Snippets undergo special link preprocessing. When writing links in snippets, be careful about path segments.
* **Jupyter notebooks** (`.ipynb`) - Converted to markdown during build, though **these are not recommended for new content!** Your PR will likely be rejected if you attempt to add a Jupyter notebook unless asked to by a maintainer.
* **Assets** - Images and other files are copied to the build directory

### Available commands

**Make commands:**

* `make dev` - Start development mode with file watching and live rebuild
* `make build` - Build documentation to `./build` directory
* `make mint-broken-links` - Check for broken links in built documentation (excludes integrations)
* `make mint-broken-links-all` - Check for broken links in built documentation (includes all directories)
* `make build-references` - Build reference docs
* `make preview-references` - Preview reference docs using vercel
* `make install` - Install all dependencies
* `make clean` - Remove build artifacts
* `make test` - Run the test suite
* `make lint` - Check code style and formatting
* `make format` - Auto-format code
* `make lint_md` - Lint markdown files
* `make lint_md_fix` - Lint and fix markdown files
* `make help` - Show all available commands

**`docs` CLI tool:**

The `docs` command (installed as `uv run docs`) provides additional functionality:

* **`docs migrate <path>`** - Convert MkDocs markdown/notebook files to Mintlify format
  * `--dry-run` - Preview changes without writing files
  * `--output <path>` - Specify output location (default: in-place)
  * Supports `.md`, `.markdown`, `.ipynb` files

* **`docs migrate-docusaurus <path>`** - Convert Docusaurus markdown/notebook files to Mintlify format
  * `--dry-run` - Preview changes without writing files
  * `--output <path>` - Specify output location (default: in-place)
  * Supports `.md`, `.markdown`, `.mdx`, `.ipynb` files
  * Converts Docusaurus-specific syntax (admonitions, tabs, imports, etc.)

* **`docs mv <old_path> <new_path>`** - Move files and update cross-references
  * `--dry-run` - Preview changes without moving files

These can be used directly using the `Makefile` or via the `docs` CLI tool:

* **`docs dev`** - Start development mode with file watching and hot reload
  * Automatically rebuilds changed files from `src/` to `build/`
  * Launches Mintlify dev server at <http://localhost:3000>
  * Provides automatic browser refresh when files change
  * `--skip-build` - Skip initial build and use existing build directory

* **`docs build`** - Build documentation files
  * `--watch` - Watch for file changes after building

## Troubleshooting

### `docs dev` not working / running

Re-do the [steps to set up your dev environment](https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/contributing/documentation#set-up-local-environment), ensuring you have activated the virtual environment and installed all dependencies.

### Mintlify `.venv` parsing error

**Problem**: Running `mint broken-links` or other Mintlify commands from the project root causes parsing errors like:

```txt
Unable to parse .venv/lib/python3.13/site-packages/soupsieve-2.7.dist-info/licenses/LICENSE.md
- 3:48: Unexpected character '@' (U+0040) in name
```

**Root Cause**: Mintlify tries to parse all files in the directory, including Python virtual environment files that contain invalid MDX syntax.

**Solutions** (in order of preference):

1. **Use the safe Make commands** (recommended):

   ```bash
   make mint-broken-links  # Builds docs first, then checks links (excludes integrations)
   ```

2. **Run Mintlify commands from the build directory**:

   ```bash
   cd build               # Change to build directory where final docs are
   mint broken-links      # Now safe to run
   ```

**Why this works**: The solution ensures Mintlify commands run from the `build/` directory where the final documentation is generated, which is the correct place to check for broken links. This avoids scanning the Python virtual environment in the project root.

**Prevention**: Always use the provided Make commands instead of running raw `mint` commands from the project root.

### Warning: page doesn't exist

If adding a new group, ensure the root `index.mdx` is included in the `pages` array like:

```json
{
  "group": "New group",
  "pages": ["new-group/index", "new-group/other-page"]
}
```

If the trailing `/index` (no extension included) is omitted, the Mintlify parser will raise a warning even though the site will still build.

### General Mintlify errors

In some cases, we use new features that are only available in the latest Mintlify CLI. If you encounter errors, ensure you have the latest version installed:

```bash
mint update

# or

npm install -g mint
```
