src/langsmith/agent-builder.mdx, before:

---
title: LangSmith Agent Builder
description: Create helpful AI agents without code. Start from a template, connect your accounts, and let the agent handle routine work while you stay in control.
sidebarTitle: Overview
mode: wide
---

## What you can do

- Automate everyday tasks like drafting emails, summarizing updates, and organizing information.
- Connect your favorite apps to bring context into your agent's work.
- Use in chat or where you work (e.g., Slack) to get help in the flow.
- Stay in control with simple approvals for important actions.

## Start building

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Create with a template" icon="shapes" href="/langsmith/agent-builder-quickstart">
    Pick a ready-made starter (e.g., email assistant or team updates) and customize.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Create with AI" icon="wand-magic-sparkles">
    Describe your goal in plain English and let AI draft your agent's configuration. Review and edit before running.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Get started

<Steps>
  <Step title="Sign up" icon="arrow-right-to-bracket">
    Sign up for a [LangSmith account](https://smith.langchain.com/agents?skipOnboarding=true).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Create an agent" icon="circle-plus">
    Start from a ready-to-use template, or describe your goal and let AI draft your agent's instructions. You can edit details before running. [Browse templates](https://www.langchain.com/templates).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Connect your accounts" icon="link">
    Securely sign in to the services you want the agent to use.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Try it out" icon="rocket">
    Run the agent and iterate on its instructions in a few clicks.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Learn more

- [Essentials: connections, automation, memory, approvals](/langsmith/agent-builder-essentials)
- [Create from a template](/langsmith/agent-builder-templates)
- [Set up your workspace](/langsmith/agent-builder-setup)
- [Connect apps and services](/langsmith/agent-builder-tools) and [use remote connections](/langsmith/agent-builder-mcp-framework)
- [Choose between workspace and private agents](/langsmith/agent-builder-workspace-vs-private)
- [Authorize accounts when prompted](/langsmith/agent-builder-auth-format)
- [Call agents from your app](/langsmith/agent-builder-code)

<Note>
**Self-hosting for Agent Builder is available in Beta.** For more information, see [Enable Agent Builder](/langsmith/agent-builder-self-hosted).
</Note>

Commit message:

Consolidate Agent Builder Slack pages (#2520)
Preview:
https://langchain-5e9cc07a-preview-abedit-1770399259-d300ef4.mintlify.app/langsmith/agent-builder-slack-app

src/langsmith/agent-builder.mdx, after:

---
title: LangSmith Agent Builder
description: Create helpful AI agents without code. Start from a template, connect your accounts, and let the agent handle routine work while you stay in control.
sidebarTitle: Overview
mode: wide
---

## What you can do

- Automate everyday tasks like drafting emails, summarizing updates, and organizing information.
- Connect your favorite apps to bring context into your agent's work.
- Use in chat or where you work (e.g., Slack) to get help in the flow.
- Stay in control with simple approvals for important actions.

## Start building

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Create with a template" icon="shapes" href="/langsmith/agent-builder-quickstart">
    Pick a ready-made starter (e.g., email assistant or team updates) and customize.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Create with AI" icon="wand-magic-sparkles">
    Describe your goal in plain English and let AI draft your agent's configuration. Review and edit before running.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Get started

<Steps>
  <Step title="Sign up" icon="arrow-right-to-bracket">
    Sign up for a [LangSmith account](https://smith.langchain.com/agents?skipOnboarding=true).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Create an agent" icon="circle-plus">
    Start from a ready-to-use template, or describe your goal and let AI draft your agent's instructions. You can edit details before running. [Browse templates](https://www.langchain.com/templates).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Connect your accounts" icon="link">
    Securely sign in to the services you want the agent to use.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Try it out" icon="rocket">
    Run the agent and iterate on its instructions in a few clicks.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Privacy policy and disclaimers

The LangSmith Agent Builder App for Slack collects, manages, and stores third-party data in accordance with our privacy policy. For full details on how your data is handled, please see [our privacy policy](https://www.langchain.com/privacy-policy).

Agent Builder uses the following approach to AI:

- **Model**: Uses LLMs provided through the LangSmith platform
- **Data retention**: User data is retained according to LangSmith's data retention policies
- **Data tenancy**: Data is handled according to your LangSmith organization settings
- **Data residency**: Data residency follows your LangSmith configuration

<Warning>
Disclaimers:
- **AI-generated content**: All responses from agents are generated by AI and may contain errors or inaccuracies. Always verify important information.
- **Data usage**: Slack data is not used to train LLMs. Your workspace data remains private and is only used to provide agent functionality.
- **Transparency**: The Agent Builder is transparent about the actions it will take once added to your workspace, as outlined in the permissions section above.
</Warning>

## Learn more

- [Essentials: connections, automation, memory, approvals](/langsmith/agent-builder-essentials)
- [Create from a template](/langsmith/agent-builder-templates)
- [Set up your workspace](/langsmith/agent-builder-setup)
- [Connect apps and services](/langsmith/agent-builder-tools) and [use remote connections](/langsmith/agent-builder-mcp-framework)
- [Choose between workspace and private agents](/langsmith/agent-builder-workspace-vs-private)
- [Authorize accounts when prompted](/langsmith/agent-builder-auth-format)
- [Call agents from your app](/langsmith/agent-builder-code)

<Note>
**Self-hosting for Agent Builder is available in Beta.** For more information, see [Enable Agent Builder](/langsmith/agent-builder-self-hosted).
</Note>
