src/langsmith/trace-claude-agent-sdk.mdx, before:

---
title: Trace Claude Agent SDK
sidebarTitle: Claude Agent SDK
---

The [Claude Agent SDK](https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agent-sdk/overview) is an SDK for building agentic applications with Claude. LangSmith provides native integration with the Claude Agent SDK to automatically trace your agent executions, tool calls, and interactions with Claude models.

## Installation

Install the LangSmith integration for Claude Agent SDK

<CodeGroup>
```bash pip
pip install "langsmith[claude-agent-sdk]"
```

```bash uv
uv add "langsmith[claude-agent-sdk]"
```

</CodeGroup>

## Quickstart

To enable LangSmith tracing for your Claude Agent SDK application, call `configure_claude_agent_sdk()` at the start of your application:

```python Python
import asyncio
from claude_agent_sdk import (
    ClaudeAgentOptions,
    ClaudeSDKClient,
    tool,
    create_sdk_mcp_server,
)
from typing import Any

from langsmith.integrations.claude_agent_sdk import configure_claude_agent_sdk

# Setup claude_agent_sdk with langsmith tracing
configure_claude_agent_sdk()

@tool(
    "get_weather",
    "Gets the current weather for a given city",
    {
        "city": str,
    },
)
async def get_weather(args: dict[str, Any]) -> dict[str, Any]:
    """Simulated weather lookup tool"""
    city = args["city"]

    # Simulated weather data
    weather_data = {
        "San Francisco": "Foggy, 62°F",
        "New York": "Sunny, 75°F",
        "London": "Rainy, 55°F",
        "Tokyo": "Clear, 68°F",
    }

    weather = weather_data.get(city, "Weather data not available")
    return {"content": [{"type": "text", "text": f"Weather in {city}: {weather}"}]}


async def main():
    # Create SDK MCP server with the weather tool
    weather_server = create_sdk_mcp_server(
        name="weather",
        version="1.0.0",
        tools=[get_weather],
    )

    options = ClaudeAgentOptions(
        model="claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
        system_prompt="You are a friendly travel assistant who helps with weather information.",
        mcp_servers={"weather": weather_server},
        allowed_tools=["mcp__weather__get_weather"],
    )

    async with ClaudeSDKClient(options=options) as client:
        await client.query("What's the weather like in San Francisco and Tokyo?")

        async for message in client.receive_response():
            print(message)


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

```typescript TypeScript
import * as originalSdk from "@anthropic-ai/claude-agent-sdk";
import { wrapClaudeAgentSDK } from "langsmith/experimental/anthropic";
import { z } from "zod/v4";

const sdk = wrapClaudeAgentSDK(originalSdk);

const getWeather = sdk.tool("get_weather", "Gets the current weather for a given city", { city: z.string() }, async ({ city }) => {
    const weatherData = {
        "San Francisco": "Foggy, 62°F",
        "New York": "Sunny, 75°F",
        London: "Rainy, 55°F",
        Tokyo: "Clear, 68°F",
    };

    const weather = weatherData[city] ?? "Weather data not available";
    return { content: [{ type: "text", text: weather }] };
});

const weatherServer = sdk.createSdkMcpServer({
    name: "weather",
    version: "1.0.0",
    tools: [getWeather],
});

const query = sdk.query({
    prompt: "What's the weather like in San Francisco and Tokyo?",
    options: {
        model: "claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
        systemPrompt: "You are a friendly travel assistant who helps with weather information.",
        mcpServers: { weather: weatherServer },
        allowedTools: ["mcp__weather__get_weather"],
    },
});

for await (const chunk of query) {
    console.log(chunk);
}
```

Once configured, all Claude Agent SDK operations will be automatically traced to LangSmith, including:

-   Agent queries and responses
-   Tool invocations and results
-   Claude model interactions
-   MCP server operations

Commit message:

Style updates to claude agent sdk page (#2491)

src/langsmith/trace-claude-agent-sdk.mdx, after:

---
title: Trace Claude Agent SDK
sidebarTitle: Claude Agent SDK
---

The [Claude Agent SDK](https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agent-sdk/overview) is an SDK for building agentic applications with Claude. LangSmith provides native integration with the Claude Agent SDK to automatically trace your agent executions, tool calls, and interactions with Claude models.

## Installation

Install the LangSmith integration for Claude Agent SDK

<CodeGroup>
```bash pip
pip install "langsmith[claude-agent-sdk]"
```

```bash uv
uv add "langsmith[claude-agent-sdk]"
```

```bash npm
npm install @anthropic-ai/claude-agent-sdk
```

</CodeGroup>

## Setup

Set your [API keys](/langsmith/create-account-api-key):

```bash
export LANGSMITH_API_KEY=<your-langsmith-api-key>
export LANGSMITH_TRACING=true
export LANGSMITH_PROJECT=<your-project-name>
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=<your-api-key>
```

You can find your LangSmith API key and project name in the [LangSmith UI](https://smith.langchain.com) under **Settings**.

For an Anthropic API key, refer to the [Claude console](https://claude.ai/login).

## Quickstart

To enable LangSmith tracing for your Claude Agent SDK application, call `configure_claude_agent_sdk()` at the start of your application:

<CodeGroup>

```python Python
import asyncio
from claude_agent_sdk import (
    ClaudeAgentOptions,
    ClaudeSDKClient,
    tool,
    create_sdk_mcp_server,
)
from typing import Any

from langsmith.integrations.claude_agent_sdk import configure_claude_agent_sdk

# Setup claude_agent_sdk with langsmith tracing
configure_claude_agent_sdk()

@tool(
    "get_weather",
    "Gets the current weather for a given city",
    {
        "city": str,
    },
)
async def get_weather(args: dict[str, Any]) -> dict[str, Any]:
    """Simulated weather lookup tool"""
    city = args["city"]

    # Simulated weather data
    weather_data = {
        "San Francisco": "Foggy, 62°F",
        "New York": "Sunny, 75°F",
        "London": "Rainy, 55°F",
        "Tokyo": "Clear, 68°F",
    }

    weather = weather_data.get(city, "Weather data not available")
    return {"content": [{"type": "text", "text": f"Weather in {city}: {weather}"}]}


async def main():
    # Create SDK MCP server with the weather tool
    weather_server = create_sdk_mcp_server(
        name="weather",
        version="1.0.0",
        tools=[get_weather],
    )

    options = ClaudeAgentOptions(
        model="claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
        system_prompt="You are a friendly travel assistant who helps with weather information.",
        mcp_servers={"weather": weather_server},
        allowed_tools=["mcp__weather__get_weather"],
    )

    async with ClaudeSDKClient(options=options) as client:
        await client.query("What's the weather like in San Francisco and Tokyo?")

        async for message in client.receive_response():
            print(message)


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

```typescript TypeScript
import * as originalSdk from "@anthropic-ai/claude-agent-sdk";
import { wrapClaudeAgentSDK } from "langsmith/experimental/anthropic";
import { z } from "zod/v4";

const sdk = wrapClaudeAgentSDK(originalSdk);

const getWeather = sdk.tool("get_weather", "Gets the current weather for a given city", { city: z.string() }, async ({ city }) => {
    const weatherData = {
        "San Francisco": "Foggy, 62°F",
        "New York": "Sunny, 75°F",
        London: "Rainy, 55°F",
        Tokyo: "Clear, 68°F",
    };

    const weather = weatherData[city] ?? "Weather data not available";
    return { content: [{ type: "text", text: weather }] };
});

const weatherServer = sdk.createSdkMcpServer({
    name: "weather",
    version: "1.0.0",
    tools: [getWeather],
});

const query = sdk.query({
    prompt: "What's the weather like in San Francisco and Tokyo?",
    options: {
        model: "claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
        systemPrompt: "You are a friendly travel assistant who helps with weather information.",
        mcpServers: { weather: weatherServer },
        allowedTools: ["mcp__weather__get_weather"],
    },
});

for await (const chunk of query) {
    console.log(chunk);
}
```

</CodeGroup>

Once configured, all Claude Agent SDK operations will be automatically traced to LangSmith, including:

-   Agent queries and responses
-   Tool invocations and results
-   Claude model interactions
-   MCP server operations
