src/oss/python/integrations/callbacks/agentsystems_notary.mdx, before:

---
title: AgentSystems Notary
description: Tamper-evident audit logging for LangChain applications.
---

## Overview

AgentSystems Notary creates cryptographically verifiable audit trails for AI systems.

## Why

When AI behavior is questioned by customers, auditors, regulators, insurers, etc., you need to prove what actually happened. Traditional logs don't work: you control them, so third parties have to trust you didn't modify them.

Tamper-evident logging removes that trust requirement.

## How it works

Raw LLM interactions stay in your storage. No third party sees them during normal operation. But cryptographic hashes of each interaction are written to independent storage (Arweave or the AgentSystems API) at the same time.

If there's ever an audit or dispute, you provide the raw logs. The auditor re-hashes them and compares against the stored hashes. A match indicates the logs are unaltered. A mismatch indicates tampering or corruption.

You control your data, but can't alter it without detection.

**What gets logged:**
- To your storage: input prompt, response text, agent metadata, session IDs, timestamps
- To ledger: SHA-256 hash + metadata (e.g. namespace, session ID, timestamps)

## Hash storage options

Hashes (not raw data) can be written to either storage option:

| Storage | Best For | Features |
|---------|----------|----------|
| [Decentralized (Arweave)](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/hash-storage) | No vendor lock-in | Public append-only ledger, open-source verification, no account needed |
| [Custodied](https://agentsystems.ai/notary) | Managed compliance | Write-once storage, verification UI, signed attestations for audits |

<Info>
[Custodied plans](https://agentsystems.ai/notary) offer WORM-compliant hash storage, managed signing, and signed attestations.
</Info>

## Prerequisites

```shell
pip install agentsystems-notary langchain langchain-anthropic python-dotenv
```

## Example (decentralized)

<Steps>
  <Step title="Generate signing key">
    ```shell
    openssl genrsa -out arweave-key.pem 4096
    ```
    For production, use [AWS KMS or another cloud key management service](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/signing).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Create .env file">
    Create a `.env` file in your project root:
    ```
    # AWS S3 for raw payload storage
    ORG_AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME=your-bucket
    ORG_AWS_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKIA...
    ORG_AWS_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...
    ORG_AWS_S3_REGION=us-east-1

    # Path to signing key
    ARWEAVE_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH=./arweave-key.pem

    # Anthropic
    ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Run the example">
    ```python
    import os

    from agentsystems_notary import (
        LangChainNotary,
        ArweaveHashStorage,
        AwsS3StorageConfig,
        LocalKeySignerConfig,
        RawPayloadStorage,
    )
    from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic
    from dotenv import load_dotenv

    load_dotenv()

    # Your S3 bucket for raw LLM payloads
    s3_config = AwsS3StorageConfig(
        bucket_name=os.environ["ORG_AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME"],
        aws_access_key_id=os.environ["ORG_AWS_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"],
        aws_secret_access_key=os.environ["ORG_AWS_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"],
        aws_region=os.environ["ORG_AWS_S3_REGION"],
    )
    raw_payload_storage = RawPayloadStorage(storage=s3_config)

    # Local RSA key for signing
    signer = LocalKeySignerConfig(
        private_key_path=os.environ["ARWEAVE_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH"],
    )

    # Arweave for decentralized hash storage
    arweave_storage = ArweaveHashStorage(
        namespace="tenant_a1b2c3d4",
        signer=signer,
    )

    # Create notary callback
    notary = LangChainNotary(
        raw_payload_storage=raw_payload_storage,
        hash_storage=[arweave_storage],
        debug=True,
    )

    # Attach to model
    model = ChatAnthropic(
        model="claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
        api_key=os.environ["ANTHROPIC_API_KEY"],
        callbacks=[notary],
    )

    response = model.invoke("What is the capital of France?")
    print(response.content)
    ```

    <Warning>
    The `namespace` is written to the public ledger. Use an anonymous tenant identifier, not a company name.
    </Warning>
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Verification

**Decentralized (Arweave)**: Download raw payloads from your storage bucket, then verify with the open-source CLI:

```shell
npm install -g agentsystems-verify
agentsystems-verify --logs logs.zip
```

The CLI re-hashes each payload and compares against the hashes stored on Arweave.

Alternatively, the [Verify UI](https://verify.agentsystems.ai) supports both decentralized and custodied verification.

## Configuration

- [Raw payload storage options](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/raw-payload-storage) (AWS S3, GCS, etc.)
- [Signers for Arweave](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/signing) (local key, AWS KMS)
- [Hash storage options](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/hash-storage) (Arweave, Custodied)

## Resources

- [Documentation](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/agentsystems/agentsystems-notary)

Commit message:

Update verification instructions and increase clarity (#2534)
## Overview

Prose refinements and link improvements to the AgentSystems Notary
integration page.

## Type of change

**Type:** Update existing documentation

## Related issues/PRs
- GitHub issue: N/A
- Feature PR: #2481

## Checklist
- [x] I have read the [contributing guidelines](README.md)
- [x] I have tested my changes locally using `docs dev`
- [x] All code examples have been tested and work correctly
- [x] I have used **root relative** paths for internal links
- [ ] I have updated navigation in `src/docs.json` if needed

## Additional notes

Follow-up to #2481. Changes:
- Clarify "How it works" phrasing (storage description, payload
terminology)
- Add signing key retention warning
- Add namespace guidance comments to code example
- Add verification steps (S3 sync + zip + CLI)
- Add UTM parameters to outbound links
- Remove vendor-specific names from prose (rely on code examples
instead)

src/oss/python/integrations/callbacks/agentsystems_notary.mdx, after:

---
title: AgentSystems Notary
description: Cryptographically verifiable audit trails for LangChain applications.
---

## Overview

AgentSystems Notary creates tamper-evident audit trails for AI agent interactions.

## Why

When AI behavior is questioned by customers, auditors, regulators, insurers, etc., you need to prove what actually happened. Traditional logs don't work: you control them, so third parties have to trust you didn't modify them.

Tamper-evident logging removes that trust requirement.

## How it works

Raw LLM interactions stay in your storage. No third party sees them during normal operation. But cryptographic hashes of each interaction are written to independent, tamper-evident storage (Arweave or the AgentSystems custodied service) at the same time.

If there's ever an audit or dispute, you provide the raw logs. The auditor re-hashes them and compares against the stored hashes. A match indicates the logs are unaltered. A mismatch indicates tampering or corruption.

You control your data, but can't alter it without detection.

**What gets logged:**
- To your storage: full raw LLM payload (prompts, responses, metadata, timestamps)
- To hash storage: SHA-256 hash + metadata (e.g. namespace, session ID, timestamps)

## Hash storage options

Hashes (not raw data) can be written to either storage option:

| Storage | Best For | Features |
|---------|----------|----------|
| [Decentralized (Arweave)](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/hash-storage?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs) | No vendor lock-in | Public append-only ledger, open-source verification, no account needed |
| [Custodied](https://agentsystems.ai/notary?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs) | Managed compliance | Write-once storage, verification UI, signed attestations for audits |

<Info>
[Custodied plans](https://agentsystems.ai/notary?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs) offer WORM-compliant hash storage, managed signing, and signed attestations.
</Info>

## Prerequisites

```shell
pip install agentsystems-notary langchain langchain-anthropic python-dotenv
```

## Example (decentralized)

<Steps>
  <Step title="Generate signing key">
    ```shell
    openssl genrsa -out arweave-key.pem 4096
    ```
    <Warning>
    Retain this key. It is required to prove ownership of on-chain hashes during verification.
    </Warning>

    For production, use a [cloud key management service](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/signing?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Create .env file">
    Create a `.env` file in your project root:
    ```
    # AWS S3 for raw payload storage
    ORG_AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME=your-bucket
    ORG_AWS_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKIA...
    ORG_AWS_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...
    ORG_AWS_S3_REGION=us-east-1

    # Path to signing key
    ARWEAVE_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH=./arweave-key.pem

    # Anthropic
    ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Run the example">
    ```python
    import os

    from agentsystems_notary import (
        LangChainNotary,
        ArweaveHashStorage,
        AwsS3StorageConfig,
        LocalKeySignerConfig,
        RawPayloadStorage,
    )
    from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic
    from dotenv import load_dotenv

    load_dotenv()

    # Your S3 bucket for raw LLM payloads
    s3_config = AwsS3StorageConfig(
        bucket_name=os.environ["ORG_AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME"],
        aws_access_key_id=os.environ["ORG_AWS_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"],
        aws_secret_access_key=os.environ["ORG_AWS_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"],
        aws_region=os.environ["ORG_AWS_S3_REGION"],
    )
    raw_payload_storage = RawPayloadStorage(storage=s3_config)

    # Local RSA key for signing
    signer = LocalKeySignerConfig(
        private_key_path=os.environ["ARWEAVE_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH"],
    )

    # Arweave for decentralized hash storage
    # Namespace is public — written to the ledger and used to segment stored data
    # Namespace should be one anonymous ID per customer, agent, or environment
    # Retain a record of your namespace mappings
    arweave_storage = ArweaveHashStorage(
        namespace="tenant_a1b2c3d4",  # See namespace comments above
        signer=signer,
    )

    # Create notary callback
    notary = LangChainNotary(
        raw_payload_storage=raw_payload_storage,
        hash_storage=[arweave_storage],
        debug=True,
    )

    # Attach to model
    model = ChatAnthropic(
        model="claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929",
        api_key=os.environ["ANTHROPIC_API_KEY"],
        callbacks=[notary],
    )

    response = model.invoke("What is the capital of France?")
    print(response.content)
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Verification

**Decentralized (Arweave)**: Download raw payloads from your storage bucket, zip them, and verify with the open-source CLI:

```shell
aws s3 sync s3://your-bucket/arweave/tenant_a1b2c3d4/ ./logs
zip -r logs.zip logs
npm install -g agentsystems-verify
agentsystems-verify --logs logs.zip
```

The CLI re-hashes each payload and compares against the hashes stored on Arweave. See the [full verification guide](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/verification/arweave?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs) for details.

Alternatively, the [Verify UI](https://verify.agentsystems.ai?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs) supports both decentralized and custodied verification.

## Configuration

- [Raw payload storage options](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/raw-payload-storage?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs)
- [Signing configuration](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/signing?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs)
- [Hash storage options](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/configuration/hash-storage?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs)

## Resources

- [Website](https://agentsystems.ai/notary?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs)
- [Documentation](https://docs.agentsystems.ai/notary/?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/agentsystems/agentsystems-notary?utm_source=langchain-docs&utm_medium=docs)
